# CS305-Final-Project

***Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?***
Artemis Financial is a consulting company that creates and manages individualized financial plans for their customers. They wished to modernize their operations in providing saving, retirement, investment, and insurance plans, they want their own custom software. They specifically wanted me, a developer of the software engineering company called Global Rain, to examine their current software security and identify approaches to protect their organization from external threats. For deliverables, Artemis Financial requested a Vulnerability Assessment and Secure Software Report.

***What did you do very well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?***
I believe I did well in providing an accurate mitigation plan for the identified vulnerabilities identified within the Dependency Check and through my Manual Review of the software's code. I provided references and rationale that aided in my mitigation decisions for the vulnerabilities as evidence of reflective decision making. Ensuring quality of code and secure error handling are important for many reasons. One main reason is because it lowers the chances of breaches and exploitations of your software. Another main reason is because it can save time and costs for the creation and maintenance of the product. Software Security is vital to a company's wellbeing for these reasons. Failing to provide a sufficient amount of Software Security can potentially lead to loss of confidence that sensitive information will not be accessed by an unauthorized entity. It also can lead to misuse of business secrets, currency, and software privileges.   

***What part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?***
I thought the OWASP Dependency Report was helpful regarding my Vulnerability Assessment. The report was easy to read, and provided links to view the validity of listed CVEs and what, if any, solutions were found to resolve the vulnerability. It also provided different resources such as the OSSIndex Vulnerability Database that can show vulnerabilities pertaining to a particular version of a file and its severity level. With this ease of use yet abundant information, it helped elevate the quality of my static testing within my Vulnerability Assessment.

***How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?***
As previously mentioned, I used the OWASP Dependency Check to help assess vulnerabilities and possible mitigations in the software. After learning of its potential, I plan to use it more often in the future. To further increase the layers of security, I also used a Checksum Verification to introduce an SHA-256 Cryptographic Hash Function to ensure Artemis Financials’ clients that they are receiving data that has not been compromised or changed from anyone except the appropriate sender and receiver of the data. I also provided my own means of a Certificate Generation that will verify the authenticity of the website using an asymmetric private/public key pair.

***How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?***
I used Static Testing techniques such as manually reviewing the code for defects to ensure the application was functional and secure. I also used Dynamic Testing such as White Box Testing as I was aware of the internal structure of the application. I ran a Functional Test to check if the application met the respective requirements and to see if any syntax, logic, or other forms of errors would occur after refactoring the code. When I finished, I used Secondary Testing to implement another Dependency Check to make sure I did not introduce additional vulnerabilities.

***What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?***
One coding practice I used was incremental development. I implemented this technique by testing the application as I completed each requirement for the overall product. This allowed me to catch defects earlier in the cycle. I also use regression testing. I performed this by testing the code multiple times when making changes to the code of the application. I also used the Oracle Website to find an appropriate Algorithm Cipher for the project as well as different Java Key tool commands. 

***Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?***
I would show them the entire assignment for the completeness of my knowledge gained in the class involving Software Security. However, if I had to choose a subsection, I would include the rationale and implementation of my Cryptographic Hashing Algorithm using the Spring Framework. I feel this combination can show employers my competency in hashing data correctly and securely as well as using it in a simulated real-life environment through my localhost.
